.TH CHANGESTOOL 1 "2010-03-19" "reprepro" REPREPRO
.SH NAME
changestool \- verify, dump, modify, create or fix Debian .changes files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B changestool \-\-help

.B changestool
[
\fIoptions\fP
]
\fI.changes-filename\fP
\fIcommand\fP
[
\fIper-command-arguments\fP
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
changestool is a little program to operate on Debian .changes files,
as they are produced by \fBdpkg\-genchanges\fP(1) and used to feed
built Debian packages into Debian repository managers like
.BR  reprepro (1)
or
.BR dak .

.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.B changestool \fIbloat.changes\fP setdistribution \fIlocal\fP
.br
will modify the \fBDistribution:\fP header inside \fIbloat.changes\fP
to say \fIlocal\fP instead of what was there before.
.P
.B changestool \fIreprepro_1.2.0\-1.local_sparc.changes\fP includeallsources
.br
will modify the given file to also list \fB.orig.tar.gz\fP it does not list
because you forgot to build it with
.BR "dpkg\-buildpackage \-sa" .
.P
.B changestool \fIblafasel_1.0_abacus.changes\fP updatechecksums
.br
will update the md5sums to those of the files referenced by this file.
(So one can do quick'n'dirty corrections to them before uploading to
your private package repository)
.P
.B changestool \-\-create \fItest.changes\fP add \fIbla_1\-1.dsc bla_1\-1_abacus.deb\fP
.br
will add the specified files (format detected by filename,
use \fBadddeb\fP or \fBadddsc\fP if you know it).
If the file \fItest.changes\fP does not exist yet, a minimal one will be
generated. Though that might be too minimal for most direct uses.

.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
Options can be specified before the command. Each affects a different
subset of commands and is ignored by other commands.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Displays a short list of options and commands with description.
.TP
.B \-o \-\-outputdir \fIdir\fP
Not yet implemented.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-searchpath \fIpath\fP
A colon-separated list of directories to search for files if they
are not found in the directory of the .changes file.
.TP
.B \-\-create
Flag for the commands starting with \fBadd\fP to create the \fB.changes\fP
file if it does not yet exists.
.TP
.B \-\-create\-with\-all\-fields
Flag for the commands starting with \fBadd\fP to create the \fB.changes\fP
file if it does not yet exists.
Unlike \fB\-\-create\fP, this creates more fields to make things like dupload
happier.
Currently that creates fake \fBUrgency\fP and \fBChanges\fP fields.
.TP
.B \-\-unlzma \fIcommand\fP
External uncompressor used to uncompress lzma files to look
into .diff.lzma, .tar.lzma or .tar.lzma within .debs.
.TP
.B \-\-unxz \fIcommand\fP
External uncompressor used to uncompress xz files to look
into .diff.xz, .tar.xz or .tar.xz within .debs.
.TP
.B \-\-lunzip \fIcommand\fP
External uncompressor used to uncompress lzip files to look
into .diff.lz, .tar.lz or .tar.lz within .debs.
.TP
.B \-\-bunzip2 \fIcommand\fP
External uncompressor used to uncompress bz2 when compiled without
libbz2.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR verify
Check for inconsistencies in the specified \fB.changes\fP file and the
files referenced by it.
.TP
.BR updatechecksums " [ " \fIfilename\fP " ]"
Update the checksum (md5sum and size) information within the specified
\fB.changes\fP file and all \fB.dsc\fP files referenced by it.
Without arguments, all files will be updated.
To only update specific files, give their filename (without path) as
arguments.
.TP
.BR setdistribution " [ " \fIdistributions\fP " ]"
Change the \fBDistribution:\fP header to list the remaining arguments.
.TP
.BR includeallsources " [ " \fIfilename\fP " ]"
List all files referenced by \fB.dsc\fP files mentioned in the \fB.changes\fP
file in said file.
Without arguments, all missing files will be included.
To only include specific files, give their filename (without path) as
arguments.

Take a look at the description of \fB\-si\fP, \fB\-sa\fP and \fB\-sd\fP in
the manpage of \fBdpkg\-genchanges\fP/\fBdpkg\-buildpackage\fP how to avoid
to have to do this at all.

Note that while \fBreprepro\fP will just ignore files listed in a \fB.changes\fP
file when it already has the file with the same size and md5sum, \fBdak\fP
might choke in that case.
.TP
.B adddeb \fIfilenames\fP
Add the \fB.deb\fP and \fB.udeb\fP files specified by their filenames to
the \fB.changes\fP file.
Filenames without a slash will be searched
in the current directory,
the directory the changes file resides in
and in the directories specified by the \fB\-\-searchpath\fP.
.TP
.B adddsc \fIfilenames\fP
Add the \fB.dsc\fP files specified by their filenames to
the \fB.changes\fP file.
Filenames without a slash will be searched
in the current directory,
in the directory the changes file resides in
and in the directories specified by the \fB\-\-searchpath\fP.
.TP
.B addrawfile \fIfilenames\fP
Add the files specified by their filenames to
the \fB.changes\fP file.
Filenames without a slash will be searched
in the current directory,
in the directory the changes file resides in
and in the directories specified by the \fB\-\-searchpath\fP.
.TP
.B add \fIfilenames\fP
Behave like \fBadddsc\fP for filenames ending in \fB.dsc\fP,
like \fBadddeb\fP for filenames ending in \fB.deb\fP or \fB.udeb\fP,
and like \fBaddrawfile\fP for all other filenames
.TP
.B dumbremove \fIfilenames\fP
Remove the specified files from the .changes file.
No other fields (Architectures, Binaries, ...) are updated and
no related files is removed.
Just the given files (which must be specified without any \fB/\fP)
are no longer listen in the .changes file (and only no longer in the
changes file).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR reprepro (1),
.BR dpkg\-genchanges (1),
.BR dpkg\-buildpackage (1),
.BR md5sum (1).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs or wishlist requests the Debian BTS
(e.g. by using \fBreportbug reperepro\fP)
or directly to <brlink@debian.org>.
.br
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006-2009 Bernhard R. Link
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
