.TH RREDTOOL 1 "2009-11-12" "reprepro" REPREPRO
.SH NAME
rredtool \- merge or apply a very restricted subset of ed patches
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rredtool \-\-help

.B rredtool
[
\fIoptions\fP
]
.B \-\-merge
.I patches...

.B rredtool
[
\fIoptions\fP
]
.B \-\-patch
.IR file-to-patch " " patches...

.B rredtool
.IR directory " " newfile " " oldfile " " mode
.SH DESCRIPTION
rredtool is a tool to handle a subset of ed patches in a safe way.
It is especially targeted at ed patches as used in Packages.diff
and Sources.diff.
Is also has a mode supposed to be called from reprepro as Index Hook
to generate and update a \fBPackages.diff/Index\fP file.
.SH "MODI"
One of the following has to be given, so that rredtool know that to
do.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version of this tool
(or rather the version of reprepro which it is coming with).
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a short overview of the modi.
.TP
.B \-\-patch
The first argument of rredtool is the file to patch,
the other arguments are ed patches to apply on this one.
.TP
.B \-\-merge
The arguments are treated as ed patches, which are merged into
a single one.
.TP
.BR \-\-reprepro\-hook " (or no other mode flag)
Act as reprepro index hook to manage a \fBPackages.diff/index\fP file.
That means it expects to get exactly 4 arguments
and writes the names of files to place into filedescriptor 3.

If neither \-\-patch nor \-\-merge is given,
this mode is used, so you can just put

 \fBDebIndices: Packages Release . .gz /usr/bin/rredtool\fP

into reprepro's \fBconf/distributions\fP file to have a Packages.diff
directory generated.
(Note that you have to generate an uncompressed file (the single dot).
You will need to have patch, gzip and gunzip available in your path.)

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print intermediate results or other details that might be interesting
when trying to track down bugs in rredtool but not intresting otherwise.
.TP
.B \-\-max\-patch\-count=\fIcount\fP
When generating a \fIPackages\fP\fB.diff/Index\fP file,
put at most \fIcount\fP patches in it
(not counting possible apt workaround patches).
.TP
.BR \-o | \-\-output
Not yet implemented.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.BR TMPDIR ", " TEMPDIR
temporary files are created in $\fITEMPDIR\fP if set,
otherwise in $\fITMPDIR\fP if set, otherwise in \fB/tmp/\fP.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs or wishlist requests the Debian BTS
(e.g. by using \fBreportbug reperepro\fP)
or directly to <brlink@debian.org>.
.br
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2009 Bernhard R. Link
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
